docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

# Obsidian ELN Plugin

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin)](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin)](LICENSE)
[![Beta](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-beta-yellow)](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/releases)

Electronic Lab Notebook (ELN) functionality integrated seamlessly into Obsidian. Transform your Obsidian vault into a powerful, structured laboratory notebook with dynamic templates, metadata management, and specialized research tools.

> **⚠️ Beta Release**: This plugin is currently in public beta. Core features are stable, but expect some rough edges. Please [report issues](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/issues) and backup your vault before use!

## ✨ Features

- 🔬 **Dynamic Note Templates** - Create structured lab notes with intelligent forms
- 🧪 **Chemical Integration** - Built-in chemical structure lookup and periodic table
- 📊 **Metadata Management** - Rich, nested metadata with automatic validation
- 🎨 **Modern UI** - Clean, intuitive interface that matches Obsidian's design
- 🔄 **Reactive Fields** - Template fields that update automatically based on other inputs
- 📋 **Flexible Templates** - JSON-based templates that are easy to customize
- 📈 **Dashboard & Tracking** - Monitor research progress and organize projects

## 🚀 Quick Start

### [📥 Installation Guide](user/installation)

Choose from multiple installation methods:
- **Test Vault** - Try before installing (includes examples)
- **BRAT** - Beta testing with auto-updates
- **Manual** - Direct installation from releases

[➡️ View Full Installation Guide](user/installation)

### First Steps

1. Install the plugin (see installation guide above)
2. Configure basic settings (author name, default paths)
3. Create your first note: `Ctrl/Cmd+P` → "ELN: Create Note"
4. Choose a template and fill in the structured form
5. Explore the [Features Guide](user/features) to discover all capabilities

## 📚 Documentation

### 👥 User Documentation
Complete guides for end users:
- **[Installation & Setup](user/installation)** - Get started with the plugin
- **[Features Overview](user/features)** - Discover all capabilities
- **[Template System](user/TEMPLATE_SYSTEM)** - Understand and customize templates
- **[UI Components](user/ui-components)** - ImageViewer, Periodic Table, NPE
- **[Quick Reference](user/quick-reference)** - Cheat sheet for common tasks
- **[Template Examples](user/template-examples/)** - Ready-to-use templates

### 🔧 Developer Documentation
Technical documentation for contributors:
- **[Development Setup](developer/public/)** - Get started contributing
- **[Roadmap](developer/public/ROADMAP)** - Planned features and timeline
- **[Known Issues](developer/public/KNOWN-ISSUES)** - Current limitations
- **[Contributing Guide](developer/public/)** - How to contribute

## 🎯 Use Cases

### Research & Chemistry
- Track chemical synthesis experiments
- Document analytical procedures
- Manage sample inventories
- Record instrument parameters

### Project Management
- Organize research projects
- Track milestones and progress
- Link related experiments and analyses
- Daily lab notes with context

### Data Organization
- Structured metadata for searchability
- Hierarchical organization
- Cross-linking between notes
- Template-based consistency

## 🖼️ Screenshots

### Dynamic Note Creation
![Note Creation Dialog](../images/note_creation_dialog.png)
*Create structured notes with intelligent forms*

### Nested Properties Editor
![Nested Properties Editor](../images/nested_properties_editor.gif)
*Edit complex metadata directly in your notes*

### Periodic Table View
![Periodic Table](../images/periodic_table.png)
*Interactive periodic table for chemical information*

### Image Viewer
![Image Viewer](../images/image_viewer.png)
*Enhanced image viewing with zoom and pan*

## 🆕 Latest Release

### v0.8.0-beta.1 (February 2026)

**Major Improvements:**
- Complete NPE (Nested Properties Editor) refactoring for better performance
- Critical QueryDropdown array bug fixes
- Enhanced file.link handling (strips .md extension)
- Comprehensive logger system
- Memory leak prevention

[📥 Download Latest Release](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/releases/latest) | [📋 Full Changelog](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Whether you're fixing bugs, adding features, or improving documentation:

1. Check the [Contributing Guide](developer/contributing/contributing)
2. Read the [Development Setup](developer/core/development-setup)
3. Browse [Open Issues](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/issues)
4. Submit pull requests

## 📞 Support

- 🐛 [Report Bugs](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/issues/new?template=bug_report.md)
- 💡 [Request Features](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/issues/new?template=feature_request.md)
- 💬 [Discussions](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/discussions)
- 📧 Email: [Your Contact Email]

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built for [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md)
- Inspired by the needs of research laboratories
- Community feedback and contributions

---

**Ready to get started?** [Install the plugin now](user/installation) or [try the test vault](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/releases/latest) to see it in action!

Commit message:

docs: add Getting Started guide and update ROADMAP versions
Add Getting Started Guide:
- New comprehensive workflow guide for new users
- Explains ELN concepts and note type relationships
- Clarifies that Samples and Analyses ARE the experiments (no separate Experiment note type)
- Step-by-step instructions for creating first notes
- Best practices and common workflow patterns
- Includes status field usage notes

ROADMAP Version Updates:
- Update all future version references from v0.7.x to v0.8.x/v0.9.x series
- Short-Term Goals: v0.8.x series (Type Safety v0.8.1, Documentation v0.8.1-0.8.2, UX v0.8.2-0.8.3)
- Medium-Term Goals: v0.9.x series
- Individual feature targets updated throughout:
  - Template Operations: v0.8.2-v0.9.0
  - Unified Template System: v0.9.0
  - Cross-File NPE Display: v0.9.0
  - Note Creation Architecture: v0.9.0 or v1.0.0
  - Advanced Query System: v0.9.1
  - Plugin API: v0.9.2
- Update template syntax evolution references to v0.8.0-v0.9.1
- Update completed features section to reference v0.8.0-beta.1

Documentation Updates:
- Add Getting Started link to user/README.md and homepage
- Fix broken template links in user/README.md
- Update navigation throughout documentation site

All version updates reflect current state:
- Current release: v0.8.0-beta.1 (February 6, 2026)
- Next releases: v0.8.x series for improvements, v0.9.x for major features

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

# Obsidian ELN Plugin

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin)](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin)](LICENSE)
[![Beta](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-beta-yellow)](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/releases)

Electronic Lab Notebook (ELN) functionality integrated seamlessly into Obsidian. Transform your Obsidian vault into a powerful, structured laboratory notebook with dynamic templates, metadata management, and specialized research tools.

> **⚠️ Beta Release**: This plugin is currently in public beta. Core features are stable, but expect some rough edges. Please [report issues](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/issues) and backup your vault before use!

## ✨ Features

- 🔬 **Dynamic Note Templates** - Create structured lab notes with intelligent forms
- 🧪 **Chemical Integration** - Built-in chemical structure lookup and periodic table
- 📊 **Metadata Management** - Rich, nested metadata with automatic validation
- 🎨 **Modern UI** - Clean, intuitive interface that matches Obsidian's design
- 🔄 **Reactive Fields** - Template fields that update automatically based on other inputs
- 📋 **Flexible Templates** - JSON-based templates that are easy to customize
- 📈 **Dashboard & Tracking** - Monitor research progress and organize projects

## 🚀 Quick Start

### [📥 Installation Guide](user/installation)

Choose from multiple installation methods:
- **Test Vault** - Try before installing (includes examples)
- **BRAT** - Beta testing with auto-updates
- **Manual** - Direct installation from releases

[➡️ View Full Installation Guide](user/installation)

### First Steps

1. Install the plugin (see installation guide above)
2. Read the [Getting Started Guide](user/getting-started) to understand workflows
3. Create your first note: `Ctrl/Cmd+P` → "ELN: Create Note"
4. Start with a **Project** to organize your work
5. Explore the [Features Guide](user/features) to discover all capabilities

## 📚 Documentation

### 👥 User Documentation
Complete guides for end users:
- **[Getting Started](user/getting-started)** - Learn workflows and note dependencies
- **[Installation & Setup](user/installation)** - Get started with the plugin
- **[Features Overview](user/features)** - Discover all capabilities
- **[Template System](user/TEMPLATE_SYSTEM)** - Understand and customize templates
- **[UI Components](user/ui-components)** - ImageViewer, Periodic Table, NPE
- **[Quick Reference](user/quick-reference)** - Cheat sheet for common tasks
- **[Template Examples](user/template-examples/)** - Ready-to-use templates

### 🔧 Developer Documentation
Technical documentation for contributors:
- **[Development Setup](developer/public/)** - Get started contributing
- **[Roadmap](developer/public/ROADMAP)** - Planned features and timeline
- **[Known Issues](developer/public/KNOWN-ISSUES)** - Current limitations
- **[Contributing Guide](developer/public/)** - How to contribute

## 🎯 Use Cases

### Research & Chemistry
- Track chemical synthesis experiments
- Document analytical procedures
- Manage sample inventories
- Record instrument parameters

### Project Management
- Organize research projects
- Track milestones and progress
- Link related experiments and analyses
- Daily lab notes with context

### Data Organization
- Structured metadata for searchability
- Hierarchical organization
- Cross-linking between notes
- Template-based consistency

## 🖼️ Screenshots

### Dynamic Note Creation
![Note Creation Dialog](../images/note_creation_dialog.png)
*Create structured notes with intelligent forms*

### Nested Properties Editor
![Nested Properties Editor](../images/nested_properties_editor.gif)
*Edit complex metadata directly in your notes*

### Periodic Table View
![Periodic Table](../images/periodic_table.png)
*Interactive periodic table for chemical information*

### Image Viewer
![Image Viewer](../images/image_viewer.png)
*Enhanced image viewing with zoom and pan*

## 🆕 Latest Release

### v0.8.0-beta.1 (February 2026)

**Major Improvements:**
- Complete NPE (Nested Properties Editor) refactoring for better performance
- Critical QueryDropdown array bug fixes
- Enhanced file.link handling (strips .md extension)
- Comprehensive logger system
- Memory leak prevention

[📥 Download Latest Release](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/releases/latest) | [📋 Full Changelog](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Whether you're fixing bugs, adding features, or improving documentation:

1. Check the [Contributing Guide](developer/contributing/contributing)
2. Read the [Development Setup](developer/core/development-setup)
3. Browse [Open Issues](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/issues)
4. Submit pull requests

## 📞 Support

- 🐛 [Report Bugs](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/issues/new?template=bug_report.md)
- 💡 [Request Features](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/issues/new?template=feature_request.md)
- 💬 [Discussions](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/discussions)
- 📧 Email: [Your Contact Email]

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/blob/main/LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built for [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md)
- Inspired by the needs of research laboratories
- Community feedback and contributions

---

**Ready to get started?** [Install the plugin now](user/installation) or [try the test vault](https://github.com/fcskit/obsidian-eln-plugin/releases/latest) to see it in action!
